# Differences from BizTalk

Although we've done our best to correctly implement BizTalk functionality, not everything works the same. In this section, we only list issues where we have implemented support for BizTalk functionality, but it doesn't work the same. We don't list issues due to us not having implemented support for a given piece of functionality.

In this section, we list out where you'll find differences – this section will expand over time.

- **Flat File Decoding** : we're using the FlatFile Encode/Decode Integration Account actions. These have a small number of known compatibility issues, especially around the suppression of empty nodes. See more here: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/david\_burgs\_blog/wheres-my-node-logic-apps-flat-file-decode-beware-suppress-empty-nodes-unintended-effect](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/david_burgs_blog/wheres-my-node-logic-apps-flat-file-decode-beware-suppress-empty-nodes-unintended-effect)
- **No Subscribers Found** : In BizTalk, if a message is published and no subscriber exists, BizTalk throws an exception. Service Bus does not do this: instead the message is published, and if no Subscriber has picked up that message after a given length of time, the message is sent to the Dead Letter queue
- **Unknown Schemas** : we have slightly different defaults for how we handle scenarios where a message is published but no Schema can be found. In general, we allow these scenarios: the message will be published, but because there is no MessageType property set, it is likely that there will be no subscribers.
- **Json Encode/Decode** : as with BizTalk, we use Newtonsoft's Json.NET library to handle conversion. Due to licensing issues (and the fact this is an open source project), we're unable to use the exact code that BizTalk uses (i.e. accustom JSON formatter for serialization/deserialization). This means that there will be cases where the JSON we emit (for XML-\&gt;JSON scenarios) may be slightly different than what BizTalk emits. We're not sure yet how much of an issue this may be – in our testing, we didn't find any major differences, but we can look at modifying the code if a number of customers have issues.
- **Orchestration Exception Handling** : Logic Apps have no equivalent to the try/catch exception blocks we use in Orchestrations. We don't even attempt to migrate them (at the moment). Instead, we wrap the Orchestration flow in a Scope, and use standard Logic App RunAfter functionality to check if there were any errors. If you need to execute specific code depending on error scenarios, you'll need to manually add this.